SDLC-Software Development Life Cycle


1-Requirement Gathering-All the information is collected from the customer to develop a product as according to heir expectations.Product Owner,Stakeholder ask Client what product he needs and how it should be functioning
DevOps here can work as connecting private vpm.Ask what tool we need, What are we working on.What is owr goal.Why we do.How we do.


2-Design the Software-Arhitecture,UX/UI Desiner. 

3-Build the Software/Implementation&Coding-DevOps here will work as development connect environments,Dev Env,we deploy development environment and give them playground to work.

4-Test-configuration environment, CI/CD Jenkins Run,We create Testing Environment for Testers, which called Staging is a copy of production.Behave the same. We dont test on production, because Production Data is a real data, we dont want to mess up with that.

5-Deployment- Once the customer gets that is the release.  Deployment and Release are different.
Deployment - once i have code redy for env.They ensure that the software is correctly packed up, moved,and set up in the new place.

5-Release-Delivering to the customer.Act like expert movers in deployment.
3 types of releases:fixed date release, fixed scope release,fixed budget release.

6-Maintenance-is a Phase is a stage in the Software Lifecucle to ensure software is functioning as expected.


DevOps role-good understanding of operations in the company,what technologies are you going to use, security configurations that you will need to use.
Cybersecurity finds an dthen DevOps fix.Expected from DevOps build correct infostructure, what server, technology, help testeing, development,release.
Strong communication skills, should not be afraid to ask questions and willing to continue learning

DevOps is a methodology and a set of best practice for software development whose primary goals are to shorten delivery 
times for new software updates while maintaining high quality.

     Software Development & Deployment Process:
     1.Coding 2.Building 3.Testing 4.Packaging 5.Release 6.Configuring 7.Monitoring

                
     
                 Agile has 2 types-Scrum & Kunban

Scrum-->

  Sprint-->is a short,time-boxed period when scrum team works to complete a set amount of work.
  Sprints are at the very heart of scrum and agile methodology, and getting sprints right will
   help your agile team ship better software with fewer headaches.
  On Daily StandUp you say What did you do, What are you going to do,Say if you are blocked on smth.15 min 





Kunban-->

Epic-is a big picture/feature, which has divided into multiple small user stories
User Stories-implementable small piece to work.
Issue-
Parent Issue

Velocity-->Velocity is a 
Capacity-->Capasity is an estimate of the future; 



Questions: What is toxic env?
What is exployed?
Are we also going to do API calls?
    How do people become DevOps if there is no major for that in University. 